Bridges (#3)
vmstio/docs: content/rules/bridges.md

---
title: Bridges
---

> # Bridges

Reviewer: We should probably have a section that at least links to https://docs.vmst.io/rules/threads, if not summarize our position on Threads here.

Reviewer: It can just be something like the following after Nostr
```
## Threads

For information about our federation policies with Meta's Twitter-like service, Threads, see https://docs.vmst.io/rules/threads.
```

(I can't remember the Docus way to link, sorry. Too lazy to look it up right now.)

Problem: Not all the people or organizations you follow may have migrated from Twitter to open social systems like Mastodon, or they moved to a different decentralized network like Bluesky or Nostr which do not use ActivityPub as their federation protocol.

One option is to follow such accounts on other networks using a bridge.

There are a few issues here:

- While some people may intend to follow accounts from another network through a bridge and understand the limitations, these accounts end up federated and searchable by anyone else in the instance.
- These bridges may not respect the original author's privacy, or require them to opt-out of federation, republishing without the original author's permission or consent.

> - There are a variety of backend issues when these bridged accounts are followed, unfollowed, replied to, and so on, and their implementations don’t respond properly because they're overloaded or incorrectly implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- There are a variety of backend issues when these bridged accounts are followed, unfollowed, replied to, and so on. For example, often the bridge implementations does not respond properly because it's overloaded or incorrectly implemented.
```

> In general, vmst.io does not connect to these services or allow our user's posts to be accessed through these services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In general, vmst.io does not connect to these services or allow our users' posts to be accessed through these services.
```

## Twitter

> Bridging with Twitter is typically a one-way operation, where software like [bird.makeup](https://sr.ht/~cloutier/bird.makeup/) running on a server connecting to the Twitter API and creates stub accounts of Twitter users, to then mirror their content as accounts on Mastodon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bridging with Twitter is typically a one-way operation, where software like [bird.makeup](https://sr.ht/~cloutier/bird.makeup/) runs on a server connecting to the Twitter API. The software then creates stub accounts of Twitter users and uses the stub accounts to then mirror their content as accounts on Mastodon.
```

> Although the bridge might work to make Twitter content visible, it can't create real conversation; your likes and replies with the person running the Twitter account are not sent back to Twitter and are never seen by the author.

Reviewer: Great use of a semicolon, but readers are almost always better served by just splitting the sentence in two.

```suggestion
Although the bridge might work to make Twitter content visible, it can't create real conversation.
Your likes and replies with the person running the Twitter account are not sent back to Twitter and are never seen by the author.
```

> We have, since late 2022, actively been defederated from all known and active Twitter bridge sites.

Reviewer: I'd drop the `all`, since we can't really know if we have all of them. The sentence is fine without it.

```suggestion
We have, since late 2022, actively been defederated from known and active Twitter bridge sites.
```

Reviewer: Do you have a list you follow of known and active Twitter bridge sites?

Reviewer: Also, we at some point need to start referring to it as `X`, since that is the name now, and becoming better known as such.

### Exceptions

We have not typically defederated from instances and applications where the bridged content is curated, maintained and clearly identified as a Twitter bot, or where the content is being collected from many sources to create a unique product.
An example is content from [sportsbots.xyz](https://www.sportsbots.xyz).

We may re-evaluate this in the future.

## Bluesky

Bluesky intends to be a decentralized and federated service like Mastodon, but using their own [AT Protocol](https://atproto.com) instead of ActivityPub.
While federation is still under development, developers have already created bridges that would create a link between instances running Mastodon and Bluesky.

At this time, we have defederated from the known Bluesky bridge that is being developed, [brid.gy](https://github.com/snarfed/bridgy-fed).

## Nostr

> Nostr is another decentralized and federate service that uses their own protocol instead of ActivityPub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nostr is another decentralized and federated service that uses their own protocol instead of ActivityPub.
```
